# CutePetsNYC [@CutePetsNYC](http://www.twitter.com/CutePetsNYC)
This is a bot that retrieves listings from New York City animal shelters and tweets photos and profile links to eligible pets.

Forked from [CutePetsBmore][https://github.com/Ryan-J-Smith/CutePetsBmore].
Inspired by previous work by [CutePetsDenver](https://github.com/codeforamerica/CutePetsDenver) and [CutePetsAustin](https://github.com/open-austin/CutePetsAustin).

The python script assumes that available animals are posted on the Petango service.

## Quickstart:

### On twitter:

1. Create the twitter account that will be used to post tweets
1. Log into this new account and navigate to http://apps.twitter.com
1. Create a new app with permission to post
1. Generate credentials (consumer keys and access tokens)

### In code:

1. Configure `credentials.py` by adding the keys generated by twitter
1. Install dependencies `pip install -r requirements.txt`
1. Modify `shelters.py` to include desired shelters from Petango (see below)
1. Tweet a singe pet listing: `python tweet_pet.py`

### Schedule regular tweeting with crontab (Linux):

1. From the command line, edit the crontab file: `crontab -e`
1. Schedule the script to run every hour using a line similar to: `0 * * * * /usr/bin/python /path/to/tweet_pet.py >> /path/to/log.log) 2>&1`

## Notes:

### Extension to other shelters

The `shelters.py` scrapes the Petango page listing to get the list of shelters dependent on the `ZIPCODE` and `DISTANCE_IN_MILES` variables, both of which must be integers typecasted as strings.  Shelters may be manually determined and set as `SHELTER_IDS` if the bool `SCRAPE_IDS` is set to False.

The `tweet_pet.py` retrieves a list of animals from each each of the shelters found by `shelters.py` then tweets an animal at random from this list. As a result, modifying this script to access animals from other shelters is as simple as modifying this dictionary.

### Avoidance of duplicate tweets

The script `tweet_pet.py` attempts to avoid reposting tweets about the same animals.  This is done by tracking recent tweets in a buffer file created by the script.  The size of the buffer file can be adjusted by changing the value of the `NUM_RECENT_TWEETS` in `tweet_pet.py`.

### Addtional notes:

* I intended this to run on a Raspberry Pi running Raspbian.  The python script posts a new tweet each time it is called. Regularly scheduled posting is handled by `cron`.
